Build & install instructions for Arasan on Linux or Mac:

If you want tablebase support, you must download and install the
tablebase code (available separately) and edit the Makefile to select
the type(s) of tablebase support you want and to point to the
necessary sources.

gcc 4.2 or above is recommended for building Arasan. There is some
support for older gcc versions (not very tested). It has also been
verified to compile with Intel C++ 11.1 and 12.0.

On MacOS, you need to install XCode 3.1 or above to get a compatible
gcc.  If you are on MacOS Leopard, you then probably need to set
something like:

export CC=g++-4.2
export LDFLAGS=-L/Developer/usr/lib/i686-apple-darwin9/gcc-4.2.1

to select the right compiler and libraries.

There is a makefile in the src directory. In most cases, just typing
"make" should automatically select the correct target architecture and
OS (note: assumes target and host are the same). By default it builds
all executables. All binaries are placed in the "bin" subdirectory.

To select the Intel compiler instead of gcc, define the variable CC with
this command:

export CC=icc

"clang" is also supported (set CC=clang to use).

If you have a processor that supports the amd64 POPCNT hardware
instruction, you can build a version of Arasan that uses that by
typing "make popcnt" (works only on a 64-bit OS).

If you want to use PGO to build the arasan engine (arasanx), do:

make clean profiled

(use popcnt-profiled instead of profile as the target for a POPCNT
enabled build).

The Arasan engine binary is named "arasanx-32", "arasanx-64", or
"arasanx-64-popcnt", depending on the architecture and build flags
used.

Limited testing has been done on architectures other than x32 and amd64.
However, the code is believed to be portable. Two non-Intel targets are
defined in the Makefile: sparc-solaris (with gcc as compiler) and
arm-linux.

"make release" will build the release tarball and place it in the
release subdirectory.

"make install" will install Arasan binaries into /usr/local/bin/arasan-18.0.0.
(You will need to be root, or use sudo, to execute "make install"). 
