Arasan Chess 20.4.1 Readme

This readme file contains information about Arasan, a chess-playing
program. Versions of Arasan are available for Linux, Windows and MacOS.
This readme applies only to Linux and MacOS versions.


Copyright, distribution

Arasan 20.4.1 copyright 1994-2018 by Jon Dart. All Rights Reserved.

See license.txt in the installation directory for information about
licensing of Arasan software.


xboard support

Note that Arasan for Mac and Linux is only a chess engine. By itself
it has no user interface.

Arasan is designed to be used together with xboard, a graphical user
interface for chess programs (it also works with other chess
interfaces that support the standard xboard or UCI protocols for
chess engines).

xboard can be used to play games against Arasan, play Arasan against
other chess programs, and connect Arasan to an Internet chess server.
Arasan works best with xboard versions 4.2.2 and later.

xboard is included in most Linux distributions. If you are on Ubuntu
for example you can do "sudo apt-get install xboard" to install xboard
binaries.

For systems without an installable xboard package, you can obtain the
source from http://savannah.gnu.org/projects/xboard. To build xboard
with computer and chess server support, compile it with these
commands:

configure --enable-zippy --disable-sigint
make
make install

(you will need to be root, or use sudo, to do the install step).

Mac users should see
http://www.open-aurec.com/wbforum/viewtopic.php?f=19&t=52964 for
information about xboard on Mac OS.


Using xboard as a user interface

To play a game against the Arasan chess engine using xboard, start
xboard with the -fcp switch (short for -firstChessProgram), like this:

   xboard -cp -fcp "/usr/bin/arasan-20.4.1/arasanx -H 100M -c 2"

You need to specify the full path to where arasanx is installed (usually
/usr/local/bin/arasan-20.4.1).

Arasanx recognizes a -H switch that can be used to specify the hash
table size in bytes ('K', 'M', or 'G' can be used to indicate
kilobytes, megabyates or gigabytes). Arasanx also recognizes an
optional -t flag that will show some debugging output in the window or
log file when used together with the "-debugMode true" switch to
xboard. You normally shouldn't have to turn this on. An optional -c
switch can be used to select how many cores are used (on a multi-CPU
or multi-core machine). Note: xboard can also be used to control
memory and cores, via the -defaultHashSize and -smpCores options. But
option switches specified on the arasanx command line take precedence
over those passed to xboard.


Playing against another chess program

You can use arasanx to make Arasan play games against Crafty, Gnuchess,
or other programs that support the xboard interface. To do this, use
the -fcp and -scp switches to xboard. A typical command line looks
like this:

xboard -cp -fcp "/usr/local/bin/arasan-20.4.1/arasanx -H 100M -c 2" 
  -scp "/usr/bin/crafty/crafty"

(type this all together on one line. It can also be put into a shell
script file for convenience).

After invoking xboard, select "Two Machines" in the Mode menu to make
the computers play against one another. 

You can also use the -mg argument to xboard to cause the two engines
to play a match of several games automatically. See the xboard documentation
for details.


ICS Support

Arasan can also be used to make the program play on an Internet chess
server (it isn't designed to allow humans to play on a server - there
are other and better programs for that.).

To make Arasan play on a server, you need an interface program, since
arasanx itself has no ability to connect to the Internet. xboard
version 3.5 or higher has the necessary interface code built in.
A typical command line to make arasanx play on a server might look
like this:

xboard -ics -zp -autoflag -fcp "/usr/local/bin/arasan-20.4.1/arasanx -ics -H 100M -c 2"

Please be honest when you put the computer on a chess server: tell the
administrators first, get permission to use a computer, and follow any
rules that they have for computer accounts.


Options

Many aspects of Arasan's behavior can be modified by changing the
arasan.rc file that is installed in the program directory. See comments
in this file for details. If you do change it, I recommend retaining a
backup copy so you can restore the default settings if you make a mis-
take or later decide you don't like your changes.


Tablebases

Arasan supports Nalimov, Gaviota or Syzygy format compressed
tablebases. You can configure Arasan to use tablebases by editing the
arasan.rc file, or by using a GUI that supports UCI or Winboard option
commands. Note that many Chess GUIs will override the arasan.rc
settings, so if using a GUI you should if possible set the tablebase
path and related options in the GUI.

The Arasan distribution does not come with any tablebase files. You
can download Nalimov tablebase files from ftp.cis.uab.edu, directory
/pub/hyatt, among other locations. Gaviota tablebase files are
available from http://www.olympuschess.com/egtb/gaviota/. Syzygy
tablebases can be found at
http://kirill-kryukov.com/chess/tablebases-online/.


UCI

Arasan now supports the UCI protocol in addition to xboard. UCI is
used by several chess user interface programs, including Scid
(http://scid.sourceforge.net/) and cutechess (
http://ajonsson.kapsi.fi/cutechess.html). No action is required to
enable UCI support: if the chess UI sends UCI commands, Arasan will
respond.


Support

You can get the latest version of the program and contact information for
reporting bugs at http://www.arasanchess.org.

If you think you have found a bug in Arasan, please be sure to specify 
what version you have and provide as much detail as possible about the 
problem. It might be helpful if you could run xboard with the "-debugMode
true" switch and provide me with the log output that it creates.

If you have trouble running Arasan under xboard, trouble connecting
to an Internet chess server, or other operational problems, you might
want to check the Xboard FAQ (http://www.gnu.org/s/xboard/FAQ.html).
